Design guidelines for RTL coding
1. When modeling sequential logic use nonblocking assignments.
2. When modeling latches use nonblocking assignments.
3. When modeling combinational logic using an always block, use blocking
assignments.
4. When modeling both sequential and combinational logic within the same always
block, use nonblocking assignments.
5. Do not mix blocking and nonblocking assignments within the same always block.
6. Do not make assignments to the same variable from two different always block.
7. Use $strobe instead of $display to display variables that have been assigned using
the nonblocking assignment.
8. Do not make any assignments in the RTL code using #delays, whether in the blocking
assignment or in the nonblocking assignment; do not even use #0 construct in the
assignments.
Following the above guidelines will accurately model the synthesizable hardware and
eliminate about 90% of the problems due to coding styles.
9. Do not use any internally generated clocks in the design. These will cause a problem
during the DFT stage in the ASIC flow.
10. Use the clock for synthesizing only sequential logic and not combinational logic. i.e.
do not use the clock as in: always @ ( clk or reset or state ).....
11. Use asynchronous reset in the design and make the asynchronous reset only for
Power-On reset.
12. Do not use the `timescale directive in the RTL code. RTL code is meant to be
technology independent and using timescale directive which works on #delays has
no meaning in the RTL code.
13. In general, do not use Synopsys synthesis directives like synopsys_full_case and
synopsys_parallel_case in the RTL code. These directives act as comments in the
simulation tool, but provide extra information to the synthesis tool, thereby creating
a possibility of mismatch in the results between pre-synthesis simulation and post-
synthesis simulation. (synopsys_full_case and synopsys_parallel_case are for use
with the Synopsys tool only and do not act on the Xilinx FPGA synthesis tools.)
14. Use only one clock source in every \u201cnon-top\u201d module. Ideally only the top module
can have multiple clock sources. This eases timing closure for most of the timing
analysis tools.15. Do not use the casex construct for synthesizable code. Use only the casez construct
and use \u2018?\u2019 to indicate don\u2019t care bits.
16. Code all intentional priority encoders using if-else-if-else constructs.
17. Do not use internal tristate signals. This means that you should not use the inout
type of signals in the modules that are NOT top (chip) level modules.
18. Use the 2-stage FF method of synchronizing single-bit signals which cross clock
domains. Multi bit-signals are synchronized in a different way \u2013 by qualifying the
data with another signal.
19. Use the toggle mechanism to pass a pulse-wide signal from a clock domain of
higher clock frequency to another clock domain of lower clock frequency. In this
way, pulse stretching is not required and it makes the method independent of the
clock frequencies used. It can be used for any two clock frequencies. In the target
clock domain, the toggle has to be detected by a series of 3 FFs connected as a shift
register and the output pulse obtained as a XOR of the outputs from the second and
the third FFs.
20. When signals cross clock domains, only the output of flip-flops should be used to
synchronize signals. If the output of combinational logic is used, the target domain
clock pulse might capture a glitch of the combinational output and cause
malfunction of the circuit.
21. When doing netlist level simulation of logic that has multiple clock domains, it is
inevitable to get timing violations on flip-flops that receive a signal from another
clock domain. To eliminate these timing violations, all flip-flops that are the first
stage flip-flops of synchronizing circuits can be identified and named differently and
their timing parameters have to made of \u20180\u2019 value and added to the Verilog
simulation library. This will eliminate warnings/errors during gate level simulation.
22. Use the synchronizing mechanism for power-on asynchronous RESET signal. This
will eliminate the metastability condition when the RESET signal is being de-
asserted.
23. Avoid usage of clock gating as much as possible. However, in low power designs, it
is required to use clock gating and synthesis tools (these days) handle these
situations correctly.
24. Code the clock synchronizer modules separately from all other modules. If there are
n clock domains in the circuit, then there can be at most n*(n-1) clock crossing
domains and that many number of synchronizer modules.Verification guidelines
1. Use the timescale directive consistently in all the files of the test bench. If a
timescale directive is missed out in any of the test bench files which uses a #delay,
then the interpretation of the time units will depend on the simulator that is being
used and may differ from Cadence to ModelSim, there by leading to different results
in the two cases. Use the timescale of 1ns/1ps. This should work for most cases.
2. Instead of using a timescale directive in the top file, it is better to use a timescale
directive in each of the test bench files, so that the use of the time units is not left to
interpretation by the simulator \u2013 and behaves the same way whether it is cadence
simulator or modelsim simulator.
General guidelines
1. Use C++ style comments // instead of C-style comments /* and */. In C++
comments style, each line is shown commented separately and it is very clear. In C-
style comments, when a large piece of code is commented out, you may not see the
starting and ending of the comment on the screen, and may modify a piece of code
that is commented out and see no difference in the functioning before and after the
modification. This is frustrating, very often.
